[MUSIC]
We'll talk about pulse width modulation
and how it's implemented on Raspberry Pi.
So, this is actually a review a little bit
of pulse width modulation if you've taken
previous courses in this specialization
you may not have, so I'll review it again.
It's worth spending a couple
minutes on it anyway.
Pulse width modulation, we talked about
this in the context of Arduino before, but
we'll do it our Raspberry Pi right now.
So the idea behind pulse width modulation
is that you have our processors.
Our Raspberry Pi, our Arduino,
whatever they are,
they are inherently digital devices.
So they're putting out zeroes and ones.
In Raspberry Pi 's case, its signal
outputs are zero volts or 3.3 volts.
So zeroes and ones, it's a digital output.
But you have some actuators that you want
to control that require analog input.
So maybe like for instance motors,
this motor, maybe it's a DC motor.
It speeds up according to
how much voltage you supply.
So if you want to have good
control over the motor,
you don't want it to just be off and on.
You want to make it a little
faster a little slower.
You need to control the voltage output
that the motor receives in an analog way.
But that is not easy with
one of these devices.
So one way to get around that is to use
what is called pulse width modulation.
And the idea behind that is, look,
we can only output zeroes and ones, but
what we can do is we can change between
zeroes and ones really quickly, up and
down, up and down.
So that's what a pulse width modulated
signal is, it's just a square wave,
essentially, that goes high low,
high low very fast.
But, in fact,
the common frequency is 50 Hertz.
Okay?
It's so fast that the receiving device,
whatever it is that you're
trying to control, can't track.
[LAUGH] That's not the right term.
But, what I mean is, these high, so
let's take a look at these pulses,
take a look at the top row,
right, 70% duty cycle.
So duty cycle, by the way,
is the percent of time the pulse is high.
So if you look at these three rows,
these three clocks, they're all clocks and
they have the same frequency.
They go high at the same time, each one
of them goes high at the same time.
But the top one is high 75% of the time,
and low 25% of the time.
So it's got a 75% duty cycle.
The middle one is high 50% of the time and
low 50% of the time.
And then the bottom one is high only 25%
of the time and low 75% of the time.
But they all have the same frequency,
but they have a change in duty cycle.
So the idea is these square waves
are going up and down so fast,
that say you could hook
this up to a motor.
The motor can not speed up and slow down
fast enough to match this square wave.
Meaning, say these high low,
say it's 50 Hertz right, so what's that,
it's about, I'm slow with my math,
20 milliseconds I think is a clock period.
Yes, 20 milliseconds is a clock period.
So 20 milliseconds between when
it goes high, these things,
the motors can't start and stop that fast.
So what happens is,
the speed of the motor will
basically correspond to
the average value of this signal.
So by changing the duty cycle,
by increasing the duty cycle,
the pulse width, how long a time, the
average value of that signal gets higher.
And so the receiving device,
say it's a motor or
something like that,
it perceives a higher average voltage.
So it's almost like it responds as
if it's receiving an analog voltage
that's a higher voltage when
you increase the duty cycle.
But when you decrease the duty cycle,
like you go to 25%,
then the average is going to be lower.
So the receiving device say,
motor, will move more slowly
responding as if it's receiving
a lower average constant voltage.
So what you're doing with this pulse width
modulation is you're making the signal go
high low so fast that the receiving
device, it just averages out.
It can't follow it because
it was going too fast, so
it just averages out the signal value.
And by changing the pulse width, you can
change the average that it perceives.
So it acts as if is getting
an analog voltage signal.
So that's the whole idea behind
pulse width modulation, and
the use is to control analog devices,
analog actuators, from a digital
system like our Raspberry Pi.
So pulse width modulation is very useful
for controlling a lot of devices.
Now what we're going to use it for
here is for a servo motor.
So servo motors
are a particular type of motor,
there are different types of motors.
We'll focus on servos.
[COUGH] So
a servo motor is a motor whose rotation
angle can be precisely controlled.
So if you look at that motor,
you see that little white x on top of it?
That thing rotates left, right,
clockwise, counterclockwise.
The angle at which that thing
rotated can be controlled precisely.
So, [COUGH] excuse me, where you use
this type of thing is in, say a robot,
if you want to make a robot arm move out
to a certain distance and you want to
control exactly how far it moves, how
much it rotates, you would use a servo.
Note that you wouldn't use this for
say you had an RC car and you wanted that,
you had wheels that just provide speed.
The rear tires, you want to just drive,
to make them go fast.
For that,
you would probably use a DC motor
because DC motors allow you to
control the speed pretty well.
So you could make it speed up or
slow down.
You can't control the angle.
Right, but you could control the speed.
With a servo, you're not trying
to control the speed, generally,
you're trying to control
the angle with precision.
So that's what we're dealing with here.
So, the pulse width controls
the rotation angle.
So the standard is this, assume you
have a 50 Hertz clock frequency.
That's what these servos expect.
Now, not clock frequency but
pulse width modulation frequency.
Now the pulse width should modulate
generally between one millisecond high for
one millisecond and two milliseconds high.
Remember that the entire clock
period is 20 milliseconds so
the duty cycle is actually
very small either way.
But if you have a one millisecond pulse
width, so it's high for one millisecond,
low for 19, then this servo should be at
zero degrees, all the way to the left,
all the way counterclockwise, no,
yes, all the way counterclockwise.
Where if you increase the pulse
with all the way up to 2,
which would be the max,
then you get 180 degrees rotation.
And then if you want it
in between 90 degrees,
you do 1.5 milliseconds and so on.
So that's the idea, just by setting
the pulse width, you can precisely control
the angle to which the servo turns, and
that's useful for a lot of applications.
So note that, too, just for curiosity's
sake, that this same interface that
we're talking about, this servo interface,
is used for remote control a lot.
So I only know this because I do
remote control quadcopters now.
And the interface that you use
is pulse width modulated signal.
That's what's sent by the transmitter to
the receiver and what the receiver sends
to the flight controller, which eventually
controls the speed of the motors.
Now even though my quadcopter
doesn't have any servos on it,
still it's using pulse
width modulation to control
how much I want to yaw and
roll and pitch and all that.
The reason why is because, originally,
it was all, it actually was servos.
In fact, some remote control devices,
plenty of remote control devices use
actual servos, like say a plaine, right?
So you got a remote
controlled plane fixed wing.
It's got these control services,
ailerons and things like this.
Flaps that go up and down.
And there are servos connected to those
flaps and so you can control how much
those servos go up and down, and that's
why they use pulse width modulation.
Now with quad copters,
you don't have servos on them.
I mean you might if you,
sometimes people put on the gimble
to control the camera and its angle.
But I don't have any servos on there but
it still uses exactly the same interface
just because that's what RC people use.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]